Cloudera Navigator SDK Version 1.0 Release Notes
==================================================

This is the first release of the Cloudera Navigator SDK which provides a set
of metadata models, a limited API client, and a set of code examples to
demonstrate sample use cases. It is compatible with Cloudera Navigator 2.4.0.



Metadata Models
---------------
Defines metadata model classes including Entity, Relation, and Source. Custom
model definition should use annotations like MClass, MProperty, and MRelation,
to indicate (respectively) models, model fields, and relations.

We provide specific models (Entity subclasses) for HDFS files and directories,
Hive tables and columns, and abstract classes to help define custom dataset and
dataset field models.

We provide specific relations - DataFlowRelation, InstanceOfRelation, 
LogicalPhysicalRelation, and ParentChildRelation. RelationType's are restricted



API Client
----------

This initial version of the Navigator SDK will not provide a feature-complete
client for the Navigator API. Instead, we focus on the parts of the API needed
to satisfy the use cases listed above.

For metadata extraction, we use the /entities and /relations APIs in Navigator.
In this version the JSON results are exposed as simple Map objects. We plan to
open source the default metadata models in Navigator and at that time we will
 use those models to wrap the results.

For augmenting the metadata in Navigator, we use the /metadata/plugin API
(private for now). The Navigator SDK will convert the metadata entities and
relations into JSON and POST the data to the REST API endpoint.
