Cloudera Navigator SDK Version 1.1 Release Notes
==================================================

This is the second major release of the Cloudera Navigator SDK which adds the
ability to create manage metadata fields new to Cloudera Navigator 2.6.0.
Managed metadata is a more organized way to extend metadata properties collected
by Navigator. Managed metadata properties must be declared with a type
constraint on the value(s), must belong to a namespace, and can be associated
with 0 or more metadata classes.

Creating Managed Metadata Models
--------------------------------

The SDK client is configured with a namespace that's used for all declared
managed metadata properties. It is also the package name for all custom metadata
classes. Just as a reminder, a custom metadata class can be created by
subclassing Entity with an @MClass annotation.

New metadata properties for custom metadata classes are created using the
@MProperty annotation. In this new version of the SDK, we've added new
attributes to the annotation to make it easier to register managed metadata
properties. In order to create a managed property, set the `register` attribute
to `true`. You can then set `fieldType` (default `TEXT`), `pattern` for regex
matching, `maxLength` for `TEXT` fields, or an array of `values` for `ENUM`
properties. The examples have been updated to demonstrate this new capability.

API Client
----------

The minimum API version that supports managed metadata models is v9.
Previously, the Navigator URL is specified in full including the api version.
Now the API version must be specified explicitly as the configuration variable
`navigator_api_version`.